Another great example
of Jehovah guiding his servants
is the construction
of the Wallkill Bethel complex
here in the United States.
Before that location was acquired and built,
the organization owned another property
outside of New York City
called Kingdom Farm.
That’s actually where the Gilead School
was held at the time.
But the location was not ideal,
so Brother George Couch
was assigned to find a new property
that later became Wallkill Bethel.
Brother Couch served
at the world headquarters
until his death in 2007.
Please enjoy listening
to his account of what happened
—told in a way
that only our dear Brother Couch could.
Brother Knorr said
in around the early 1960’s sometime
about looking at getting another farm
closer to New York
so we didn’t have to travel so far.
So one cold Saturday morning,
I called Brother Larson
and I said, “Brother Larson,
do you want to take a trip with me?”
He said, “I’ll go with you.”
I didn’t tell him where I was going.
So we came up here to the Gobel place,
and I came up
with the intention of asking Brother Gobel
where he’d advise us
to look for buying a farm,
and so we got here about ten o’clock.
It was cold.
They had finished the barn work,
and we came in the house
and had a cup of coffee
and had a bite of breakfast with them.
And, of course, they kept looking at us
wondering, ‘What in the world
are you doing up here?’
And so finally we said,
“We’re thinking of getting a farm
“closer to New York than Kingdom Farm
and thought maybe you’d have some ideas,”
and it just stunned them.
They looked at one another,
and then they looked at us.
And I thought,
‘What in the world did we say wrong?’
And she said, “You know,
yesterday we put this farm up for sale.”
And we were the buyers of it,
but we had no workers.
And so one Tuesday morning,
Brother Knorr and Brother Larson and I
were coming up here to the farm
and we brought up the subject
of where we were going to get help.
Brother Knorr made this suggestion,
“Well, why don’t you bring in
some circuit and district overseers
“and call them in for a short time
and have them help?”
And so we had the file with us
of the circuit and district overseers,
so on our way up, we picked out
50 circuit and district overseers.
We wrote them a letter and told them
that it was a special assignment;
it would only last about six months.
We didn’t have a typewriter;
we didn’t have a computer;
we didn’t have blueprints.
When we started the job,
Brother Dexter Busching
bought himself a calculator
to do the stressing and straining
—the figuring work on it—
and that’s how we built the building.
The schedule was from daylight to dark.
We set up a temporary kitchen
in the farmhouse
and fed cafeteria style,
which worked out quite well.
The brothers ate on the porch
and out in the yard
—wherever they could sit down.
We got the basement in on the farm building,
and the brothers put beds in there.
So it was makeshift.
We had everything but tents.
And I’d say most
of our pick-and-shovel brothers
slept in the corn cribs;
they slept in the haymow;
they slept anywhere they could put a bunk up.
All the brothers at Brooklyn Bethel
with 25 years or more seniority
were invited to come up,
and they had a nice steak meal for us.
Brother Knorr gave the dedication talk,
and then he called on Brother Franz
to say a few words.
And Brother Franz got up,
and he started back in the garden of Eden
with Adam and Eve.
And what he was saying
was that man started off as a farmer,
and he sort of developed that
to a certain extent.
After that, I came up here every week,
no doubt, for the next 10 to 15 years.
I saw the brothers turn this piece of ground
from a junkyard to a paradise it is today.
That started the Society
in their construction work
—our own construction work.
Then we built several other buildings
after that.
We saw that we could do it.
And the interesting thing is
it wasn’t long after that
we started to send the brothers
into foreign lands
to help the brothers build
the branch homes, missionary homes,
Kingdom Halls.
Just to be honest with it,
we had to get out of New York.
Our buildings weren’t big enough
to take the modern presses;
they weren’t high enough.
The weight limit on buildings
wouldn’t hold them.
You couldn’t buy land in New York City
to put up a building like you have there;
it was almost an impossibility.
So there was only one thing to do.
Our presses were old,
and we had to replace them.
There was no place in New York to put them.
We looked for land,
but we couldn’t find any place.
The Lord just drove us up here.
When you look back over things,
sometimes you think,
‘My, someone had some wise thinking
and good foresight.’
No, the Lord’s spirit did.
The Lord is running the organization.
It’s a theocratic organization.
Sometimes it’s surprising
where the idea comes from
on what you’re going to do.
Don’t worry about what it’s going to be like
after Armageddon.
It will be just the way we want it
because the Lord is going to do it.
The Lord didn’t see fit
to put it in the Bible.
We don’t need to know now.
We got our hands full now just preaching.
What the Lord has in mind for the future,
who knows?